# Web-Application-For-Complaints
A web application that will help to manage all the complaints in a single database.


## Why is it required?

In today’s fast-paced and competitive market, customer satisfaction is very important. So, providing the best services as fast as possible and easily is as important as handling the complaints of the customers.

A distribution logistics business unit is associated with various processes and offices. Hence, natures of complaints vary for each one which makes their handling very difficult. A web-based application can be very helpful by which all the complaints can be lodged and processed using a single database.

## What are the advantages for the customers?

1.	All the complaints can be lodged at a single platform irrespective of their nature
2.	The complaints can be lodged easily by providing all the necessary information in one-go which might be difficult even with long e-mails or phone calls
3.	The complaints can be lodged quickly whereas it might take longer to explain by other mediums
4.	No more confusion to reach the concerned person at different offices
5.	The status can also be checked with equal ease

## What are the advantages for the company?

1.	Complaints are easily accessible in a single database
2.	All the requisite information is available and can be found by using a unique reference number
3.	The unique reference number is useful during the whole process of redressal and status can be updated at each level
4.	The data can be used for feedback to improve various products/services

## Features of the web application:

A.	Submission of complaints

1.Take the required inputs from the customer
	
	Name of the customer
	Delivery consignment/invoice reference
	Invoice/Consignment date
	Product name 
	Nature of the complaint

2.	A unique reference number is to be generated and given to the customer after submission

B.	Checking the status 

1.	The required input from the customer
                 
		 Complaint reference number or invoice reference number 

2.	 The relevant updates are to be displayed after submission of the reference number

## Required software’s:

	PyCharm 2019.1.4 (Community Edition)
	Python 3.7.x
	Flask 1.1.1. 
	SQLite 3 
	Sublime Text 3

## Step-wise solution:

Step 1:
Create a folder in c drive and Copy all the files to that folder in a well-arranged manner. Follow the "Intruction.docx"..

Step 2:
Open file “init_db.py “in PyCharm, right-click and run which will automatically create a database “mydb.db”

Step 3:
Open file “main.py” in PyCharm, right-click and run which will initiate your web application

Step 4:
Click on this link http://127.0.0.1:5000/, which is generated by the previous step

## Acknowledgment:

First of all, I would like to extend my gratitude for Mr. Krishna Prakash KK for guiding me throughout the process. Last but not least, I wholeheartedly thank Value C Consulting Services Pvt. Ltd for providing the necessary facilities.

